Edits to getting started docs (#1368)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python: docs/getting-started.rst

Getting Started with OpenTelemetry Python
=========================================

This guide will walk you through instrumenting a Python application with ``opentelemetry-python``.
This guide walks you through instrumenting a Python application with ``opentelemetry-python``.

> For more elaborate examples, see `examples`.

Reviewer: Why remove this?

Author: So it was a little confusing to me because it read like it should have been pointing to some link with examples. Do you know what is meant by that sentence or where it's supposed to direct people?

Reviewer: Yes I believe that is where it is referring to ^

Author: Fixed.

Each span typically represents a single operation or unit of work.
Spans can be nested, and have a parent-child relationship with other spans.
While a given span is active, newly-created spans inherit the active span's trace ID, options, and other attributes of its context.
A span without a parent is called the root span, and a trace is comprised of one root span and its descendants.

In this example, the OpenTelemetry Python library creates one trace containing three spans and prints it to STDOUT.

Configure exporters to emit spans elsewhere
-------------------------------------------

The previous example does emit information about all spans, but the output is a bit hard to read.
In most cases, you can instead *export* this data to an application performance monitoring backend to be visualized and queried.
It's also common to aggregate span and trace information from multiple services into a single database, so that actions requiring multiple services can still all be visualized together.

> This concept of aggregating span and trace information is known as distributed tracing. One such distributed tracing backend is known as Jaeger. The Jaeger project provides an all-in-one Docker container with a UI, database, and consumer. Let's bring

Reviewer: The "let's bring it up now" doesn't really flow with the 2nd person edits in the rest of the doc. Maybe remove it, or something like "You can execute the code below to do this".

Author: Fixed.

it up now:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -p 16686:16686 -p 6831:6831/udp jaegertracing/all-in-one

> This command starts Jaeger locally on port 16686 and exposes Jaeger thrift agent on port 6831. You can visit Jaeger at http://localhost:16686.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command starts Jaeger locally on port 16686 and exposes the Jaeger thrift agent on port 6831. You can visit Jaeger at http://localhost:16686.
```

After you spin up the backend, your application needs to export traces to this system. Although ``opentelemetry-sdk`` doesn't provide an exporter
for Jaeger, you can install it as a separate package with the following command:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install opentelemetry-exporter-jaeger

After you install the exporter, update your code to import the Jaeger exporter and use that instead:

.. literalinclude:: getting_started/jaeger_example.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 15-

Finally, run the Python script:

.. code-block:: python

    python jaeger_example.py

You can then visit the Jaegar UI, see you service under "services", and find your traces!

.. image:: images/jaeger_trace.png

> Integrations example with Flask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instrumentation example with Flask
```

-------------------------------

> While the example in the previous section is great, it's very manual. The folowing are common actions you might want to instrument within the telemetry space:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the example in the previous section is great, it's very manual. The following are common actions you might want to track and include as part of your distributed tracing.
```

* HTTP responses from web services
* HTTP requests from clients
* Database calls

> To help instrument common scenarios, OpenTelemetry also has the concept of instrumentations. Instrumentations are packages designed to interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To track these common actions, OpenTelemetry has the concept of instrumentations. Instrumentations are packages designed to interface
```

with a specific framework or library, such as Flask and psycopg2. You can find a list of the currently curated extension packages `at the Contrib repo <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/master/instrumentation>`_.

We'll now instrument a basic Flask application that uses the requests library to send HTTP requests. First, install the instrumentation packages themselves:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-flask
    pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-requests

> Let's write a small Flask application that sends an HTTP request, activating each instrumentation during the initialization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a small Flask application that sends an HTTP request, which activates each instrumentation during it's initialization:
```

This concept of aggregating span and trace information is known as distributed tracing. One such distributed tracing backend is known as Jaeger. The Jaeger project provides an all-in-one Docker container with a UI, database, and consumer. 

Run the following command to start Jaeger:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -p 16686:16686 -p 6831:6831/udp jaegertracing/all-in-one

This command starts Jaeger locally on port 16686 and exposes the Jaeger thrift agent on port 6831. You can visit Jaeger at http://localhost:16686.

After you spin up the backend, your application needs to export traces to this system. Although ``opentelemetry-sdk`` doesn't provide an exporter
for Jaeger, you can install it as a separate package with the following command:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install opentelemetry-exporter-jaeger

After you install the exporter, update your code to import the Jaeger exporter and use that instead:

.. literalinclude:: getting_started/jaeger_example.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 15-

Finally, run the Python script:

.. code-block:: python

    python jaeger_example.py

> You can then visit the Jaegar UI, see you service under "services", and find your traces!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then visit the Jaeger UI, see your service under "services", and find your traces!
```

> multiple services. However, those services need to propagate information about a

Reviewer: Above: Configure Your HTTP Propagator (b3, Baggage) -> Configure your HTTP propagator (b3, Baggage)

trace from one service to the other.

To enable this propagation, OpenTelemetry has the concept of `propagators <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/context/api-propagators.md>`_,
which provide a common method to encode and decode span information from a request and response,
respectively.

By default, opentelemetry-python is configured to use the `W3C Trace Context <https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/>`_

> HTTP headers for HTTP requests, but you can configure itto leverage different propagators. Here's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP headers for HTTP requests, but you can configure it to leverage different propagators. Here's
```

    propagators.set_global_textmap(B3Format())

> Add Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add metrics
```

--------------

Spans are a great way to get detailed information about what your application is doing, but
what about a more aggregated perspective? OpenTelemetry provides support for metrics. Metrics are a time series

> of numbers that might express things such as CPU utilization, request count for an HTTP server, or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of values that might express things such as CPU utilization, request count for an HTTP server, or a
```

business metric such as transactions.

You can annotate all metrics with labels. Labels are additional qualifiers that describe what
subdivision of the measurements the metric represents.

The following example emits metrics to console, similar to the trace example:

.. literalinclude:: getting_started/metrics_example.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 15-

The sleep functions will cause the script to take a while, but running it should yield the following output:

.. code-block:: sh

    $ python metrics_example.py
    ConsoleMetricsExporter(data="Counter(name="requests", description="number of requests")", labels="(('environment', 'staging'),)", value=25)
    ConsoleMetricsExporter(data="Counter(name="requests", description="number of requests")", labels="(('environment', 'staging'),)", value=45)

> Store Metrics in Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use metrics with Prometheus
```
